Principles of Accessible Design
###############################

Below you will find a list of some key principles of accessible design. Most
accessibility principles can be implemented very easily and will not impact the
overall "look and feel" of your web site.

Provide appropriate alternative text
  Alternative text provides a textual alternative to non-text content such as
  images in web pages. It is especially helpful for people who are blind and
  rely on a screen reader to have the content of the website read to them.

Provide headings for data tables
  Tables are used online for layout and to organize data. Tables that are used
  to organize tabular data should have appropriate table headers (the <th>
  element). Data cells should be associated with their appropriate headers,
  making it easier for screen reader users to navigate and understand the data
  table.

Ensure users can complete and submit all forms
  Ensure that every form element (text field, checkbox, dropdown list, etc.)
  has a label and make sure that label is associated to the correct form
  element using the <label> tag. Also make sure the user can submit the form
  and recover from any errors, such as the failure to fill in all required
  fields.

Ensure links make sense out of context
  Every link should make sense if the link text is read by itself. Screen
  reader users may choose to read only the links on a web page. Certain phrases
  like "click here" and "more" must be avoided.

Caption and/or provide transcripts for media
  Videos and live audio must have captions and a transcript. For archived
  audio, a transcription may be sufficient.

Ensure accessibility of non-HTML content, including PDF files, Microsoft Word
documents, PowerPoint presentations and Adobe Flash content.
  In addition to all of the other principles listed here, PDF documents and
  other non-HTML content must be as accessible as possible. If you cannot make
  it accessible, consider using HTML instead or, at the very least, provide an
  accessible alternative. PDF documents should also include a series of tags to
  make it more accessible. A tagged PDF file looks the same, but it is almost
  always more accessible to a person using a screen reader.

Allow users to skip repetitive elements on the page
  You should provide a method that allows users to skip navigation or other
  elements that repeat on every page. This is usually accomplished by providing
  a "Skip to Content," "Skip to Main Content," or "Skip Navigation" link at the
  top of the page which jumps to the main content of the page.

Do not rely on color alone to convey meaning
  The use of color can enhance comprehension, but do not use color alone to
  convey information. That information may not be available to a person who is
  colorblind and will be unavailable to screen reader users.

Make sure content is clearly written and easy to read
  There are many ways to make your content easier to understand. Write
  clearly, use clear fonts, and use headings and lists appropriately.

Make JavaScript accessible
  Ensure that JavaScript event handlers are device independent (e.g., they do
  not require the use of a mouse) and make sure that your page does not rely on
  JavaScript to function.

Design to standards
  HTML compliant and accessible pages are more robust and provide better
  search engine optimization. Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) allow you to
  separate content from presentation. This provides more flexibility and
  accessibility of your content.

This list does not cover all accessibility issues, but by addressing these
basic principles, you will ensure greater accessibility of your web content to
everyone.